# Fraud Detection Case study
# Financial fraud Detection using machine learning tachniques

Mobile money transactions have significantly increased as a result of the inclusion of enhanced computational power in the most recent smartphones. These transactions are sensitive to illicit practices and are challenging for financial institutions to recognise and distinguish due to their enormous volume and the minimal participation of financial systems.
Few publicly accessible data on financial products exist, especially for the still-emerging area of mobile transfers of money. Financial datasets are used by many researchers, especially those conducting fraud detection studies. Because financial transactions are inherently private, there are few publicly available datasets. Paysim Dataset, which develops a synthetic dataset after stimulating mobile money transactions retrieved and utilised for this study.
In this project, different supervised machine learning algorithms are applied to the problem of fraud detection using simulated payment transaction data. Research aims to address this issue by examining machine learning techniques that use Decision Tree (tree-based) (Marri and AlAli 2021), Random Forest (Ensemble Methods), and two cutting-edge gradient boosting algorithms, such as XGBoost and CATBoost, by considering the unbalanced nature of the data. During the research, gradient boosted algorithms like XGBoost and CATBoost works best on the fraud datasets looking at the naturally unbalanced data. The experiment showed that XGBoost inherently holds a great potential to detect fraud in real world and Random Forest with Resampled Data provide realistic results and is best to captures the correctly predicted fraud transactions on the test data.
